[lugging burden efforts]
[setting down burden]
Okay, we should be safe
this far in.
Man, what a haul!
There's nothing like robbing
the Thunder Train, huh?
And even better is
finding this perfect place
to hide out!
No one in town'd ever guess
we came here!
Yeah, this mining tunnel
was abandoned ages ago.
No one's gonna come
in here now!
Man... you sure are
a sly one, Boss!
[laughter]
Huh?
Hey, wasn't there another one
of you guys here
just a second ago...?
Huh?
Yeah, you're right...
Where'd he go?
Hey! You down there?
[shocked, frightened]
[frightened]
[relieved sigh]
It's finally over!
They said it was gonna
be a bodyguard mission,
but not what kind!
Yes, who would've ever
thought that
we'd be guarding
somebody's pet.
It sure was a surprise, huh?
But now that
it's all finished,
I guess it really
was a piece of cake!
Don't get too comfortable.
It's not always
gonna go so smoothly
on missions, you know.
You don't have
to tell me that!
Anyway, let's get something
to eat!
Sarada, what do you feel
like having?
Uh...
[considering]
Mitsuki, is there anywhere
you wanna go eat?
I'm happy to go
wherever you want, Boruto.
Okay! Then let's go to
Thunder Burger!
They just put some
new stuff on the menu...
[retching]
Hamburgers again?
Hey, look.
Check it out.
There go those rookies
from Team 7.
I heard their mission
success rate's 100%.
And they're younger than us!
I guess prodigies
are different.
Well, that's to be expected,
right?
[peeved]
Oh, I'm sorry.
Did I hurt your feelings?
Yeah, we're just feeling
a little jealous, that's all.
So just ignore us.
Still, it must
be pretty nice.
I know!
I wish I was the Hokage's son!
I just don't
understand them...
(SARADA) Look,
don't let guys like that
get to you. Okay?
(BORUTO)
Don't worry. I don't.
It's just that...
Just what?
[annoyed]
I'm always being judged
by my connection to my dad,
and it bugs the hell outta me!
(SARADA)
Boruto!
Aren't we getting hamburgers?
(BORUTO)
Sorry, I've lost my appetite.
[conspiratorial considering]
Who cares about
the Hokage, anyway?
Even back then...
(HINATA)
Come on in!
[curious]
Thank you for having us!
And happy birthday
to you, Boruto!
Thank you so much,
Aunt Sakura!
So you came along,
too, huh?
Disappointed?
Well, I only came along
'cuz Mom said that I had to.
Hey there!
[chuckle] It looks like
you've made yourself at home!
It's very fun.
This is my first
birthday party.
[nervously carrying]
(HIMAWARI)
Here's your cake, Big Brother!
Awesome!
Thank you, Himawari!
As I'd expect,
that's some cake!
I decorated
the whole thing myself!
(SAKURA)
You did great, Himawari!
[giggle]
So where is Naruto today?
He said that
he'd be home really soon.
Isn't that good news?
[scoffing] Yeah, right,
gimme a break.
I couldn't care less if
my old man came home or not.
(SADARA)
The cake was really delicious!
Thanks!
(HINATA) Oh, I'm so glad!
Right, Mom?
[drinking]
[angry]
You father...
He hasn't returned yet...
Hello?
What? My husband?
(HINATA)
Yes...
I understand.
Boruto...
[chuckle] It was all
just like I thought,
that stupid old man!
Of course, it's not like
I had my hopes up
that he'd actually
be here anyway...
[sympathetic inhale]
There must have been
an emergency
that he couldn't
put on hold...
I mean...
He is the Hokage...
Oh yeah, sure...
I guess whatever it was
was so important that
Lord Hokage couldn't help but
totally blow off my birthday.
Boruto...
Big Brother sure is late.
[realizing]
You're right.
I'm really sorry, Hinata.
I just got home‐‐
[worried]
Are you okay, Naruto?
Yeah.
Except I‐‐
This is for him.
[downcast sigh]
I really let him down,
so I thought I should
at least get him a present.
But when I went to get one,
I realized that
I don't even know
what kinds of
games he likes...
[sympathetic, sad]
I know that deep down,
the two of them care
very deeply about each other.
[frustrated]
Damn it,
it makes me so mad!
You appear to be in quite
a bad mood tonight.
Did something happen
during a mission?
[taken aback]
Whenever something happens,
you come down here in order to
clear your mind, Young Lord.
No, it's nothing like that.
Hey, Old Man Katasuke...
Do you think that grown‐ups
still think of me
as a little kid?
[considering]
No, I don't think
that's the case.
After all, I'm a grown‐up
and I know just how much skill
you possess, Young Lord.
[confident chuckle]
You do, huh?
I guess so, right?
Although...
There may be others who
don't think the same way...
I'm sure some are
jealous of you, for example.
You could also say
that they fear you...
and your talent.
You're saying that
I make them nervous?
Yes, that's right!
That's why
they can't appreciate
your strength in
an honest manner.
They make excuses,
like you're the Hokage's son
and so forth.
Well, I mean, it's not like
I'm the Hokage's son
because I actually
want to be, you know?
Who needs a stupid dad
like that
who forgets his own
kid's birthday, anyway?
Well, eventually everyone
will come to understand
and they'll see
your true power, Young Lord.
And when that time
finally comes...
When the time comes, huh?
[struggling with video games]
[annoyed at defeat]
Oh, man, I wish it could
be that time now.
Right, Young Lord.
Well, here!
[curious]
I'm sorry that it's late,
but it's a birthday gift.
Naturally, I didn't forget
your special day.
Oh...
Uh, thank you!
So what is it?
Is it like a toy
or something?
This one's very practical.
It may come in quite handy
during your missions,
so I hope you'll accept it.
It's a Scientific Ninja Tool.
[considering]
I'm home!
Welcome back, Big Brother!
Oh, hey.
What're you doing, Hima?
Well, you see...
It's for my birthday...
Daddy was too busy
with work,
so he couldn't make it to
your birthday party, remember?
I thought if I started
doing this now,
Daddy would be sure to
come home for mine!
Hima...
[quick chuckle]
Listen, who cares if
that stupid old man
doesn't show up to the party?!
Mom and I will still be here
to celebrate
your birthday with you.
And I can invite all
my friends over, as well!
[affirmative, agreeing]
But still...
I want Daddy to be here, too.
Hey, Big Brother?
Do you think Daddy's gonna
miss my birthday, too?
[taken aback]
He won't be too busy
to come home, will he?
No way!
[curious, hopeful]
That won't happen.
I promise you.
Don't you worry, Himawari.
I swear to you that
it won't go down that way.
I'll make sure that Dad
comes home for your birthday!
Big Brother...
Really?!
[chuckle]
You bet!
Don't worry!
Ugh.
[yawn]
Why'd we have to
meet so early this morning?
‐ [annoyed]
‐ (KONOHAMARU) Okay, good.
You're all here.
All right, you three,
this time around,
our mission is
going to be capturing
a group of thieves who
robbed the Thunder Train.
So these guys
just disappeared
after they jumped off
of the Train?
Is that correct?
(KONOHAMARU) There's
a mining town near there
along with some
abandoned mines
that haven't been used
for ages.
Ah, I see.
So the thieves could be
hiding out inside of them.
How many thieves are there
in the gang, anyway?
Like ten or twenty?
What, can't you read?!
It's right there
in the report!
It says there are
four of them!
What, seriously?
There are only four...?
Why can't the townspeople
handle it themselves?
Can't they just go and
round up the thieves?
No, I'm afraid that's
just not possible.
The mines are laid out in
what's basically a giant maze.
The thieves could
lie in wait to attack,
so it's too dangerous
for civilians.
And that's where
our team's mission comes in,
is that it?
That's why we've gotta go
all the way out to the sticks?
Catching thieves
is cool and all,
but it'd be way more exciting
if they were
a big‐time organization
like the Byakuya Gang...
What is up with you?
There's no such thing as
"big" or "small" missions.
Didn't you learn that
back during the whole incident
with Mr. Haguruma?
Yeah, I know that.
But still...
Unless I'm able to
do something big,
people are never
going to acknowledge us.
In any event,
we leave in one hour.
For now, dismissed!
[considering]
So another ruin
that's connected to
Kaguya Otsutsuki
has been discovered?
That's right,
and this makes
the third one so far.
So what do you wanna do?
I'm gonna go and check it out
myself, of course.
I really don't want to put any
more on your plate, though...
But you don't get
to decide that.
It was agreed on
at the Five Kage Summit,
remember?
Anything that involves
the Otsutsuki Clan
is top secret.
I know.
And there's no doubt why.
Since Kaguya was able to
build living weapons,
like an army of White Zetsu,
to stop any threats.
Yeah...
It's been ten years
now since all of that...
It's possible something
even worse than White Zetsu
was sleeping in there.
Anyway, look...
If we're going to protect
the peace
we've managed to build,
we have to find every ruin,
check all of them,
and crush
any possible threats.
I get that, really.
But haven't you been
working too hard lately?
You've been at home even
less frequently than normal.
[downcast sigh]
Well that's‐‐
I heard about it from Hinata..
You missed Boruto's birthday
the other day, right?
Yeah...
I feel really bad for
letting him down like that.
But...
I'm the Hokage of
the Leaf now.
Everyone in the village
is part of my family
that I have to protect.
It's Dad...
[taken aback]
Boruto...
Sarada, Mitsuki.
You guys go on ahead.
I gotta talk to
my dumb old man.
[taken aback]
[peeved, worried]
All right, Naruto,
I'm gonna go on ahead, too.
Okay. Sorry.
(MITISUKI)
Let's go, Sarada.
[affirmative agreeing]
Listen, Boruto,
I didn't apologize to you
well enough.
[nervous sigh]
About your birthday
the other day...
(BORUTO)
Forget it.
You were super busy
with all the Hokage business,
right?
I never had
very high hopes, anyway.
Boruto, I...
But listen up!
You'd better be home
for Himawari's birthday!
I honestly don't care
if my stupid old man won't
come home for my birthday.
But Himawari...
She's still young
and innocent.
And she wants you there.
So promise me right now!
You better come home for hers!
Yeah. I promise.
Look, this is for real!
If you break your word,
then I'll never forgive you!
[warm proud chuckle]
[surprised]
[annoyed]
It's like I said.
We're way out in the sticks.
There's nothing
but mountains out here!
Listen, Boruto, can you stop
saying stuff like that?
Are you the ones
from the Hidden Leaf?
That's right.
We're here to find
and apprehend the robbers.
Actually, about that...
The situation has changed
quite a bit now...
‐ Huh?
[frightened, shaking]
Who's this?
That man is one
of the robbers.
[taken aback]
(KONOHAMARU)
Wait a second...
You went into the mine
to capture him without
waiting for us?!
(VILLAGER) No, he came
running out all by himself.
He was in a panic and
made a huge commotion.
We questioned him,
but couldn't make sense
of what he said.
Hey, what happened to
the rest of your gang?
[frightened]
It's all over!
They're dead! All dead!
So they all died...?
All of them...
All of them were...
killed by that monster!
[pain yell]
[struggling yell]
[shocked, frightened]
[frightened, overwhelmed]
A monster?
He's been like this all along,
making no sense at all.
He must've been scared
out of his wits.
(THIEF) [frightened]
Keep me safe!
Please keep me safe!
[frightened]
Where's the mine
that he ran out of?
I posted guards
at the entrance.
No one's gone inside yet.
It's not as though
we completely
believe his story, but...
His abject terror
has left us frightened
of what's inside, too.
Understandably!
All right then,
our mission's changed.
We need to go into the mine
and find out just
what happened there.
Hey, what exactly
did you see in there?
H‐He's...!
He's coming for us!
The white one!
He's coming for all of us!
[shocked]
The white one...?
So this is the place
where it all went down...?
I wonder what it really is...
this "white monster..."
A white monster, huh...?
What's the matter?
[hesitant]
Oh, it's nothing...!
It couldn't be...
Well, whatever.
C'mon, let's just hurry up
and deal with this, you guys!
Hey, hold up, Boruto!
Don't just go taking off
on your own!
(KONOHAMARU)
They may be robbers,
but if they're alive,
rescuing them is
a part of our mission.
This could be
a life‐or‐death situation.
Yeah, I know that!
That's all the more reason
why we can't waste time!
(KONOHAMARU)
Hey!
Seriously, what is with him?!
This mine is pretty big...
It looks like it continues
deep underground.
You're irritable today.
[peeved]
I mean, you know,
even more irritable
than you usually are...
No, I'm not.
That isn't true at all.
By any chance,
did something happen
between you and Lord Hokage
earlier this morning?
It's nothing like that.
Although if my dad
weren't the way he is,
everything would
be way easier for me,
that's for sure...
[exasperated sigh]
(KONOHAMARU)
Keep up, you two.
Or you'll be left behind.
Be right there, Sensei!
Just knock it off
and grow up, will ya?
Sure, yeah,
if everybody stopped
treating me like a kid,
maybe I would.
And it's not like I'm upset
just for my own sake,
either...
(KONOHAMARU) We're deep
into the mine now...
[taken aback]
Hey, come here...
What's up, Mitsuki?
Wait, is that‐‐?!
(BORUTO) [shocked]
Is that one of the robbers?!
And I found others down
this passageway...
There were two more.
So that means this guy's
entire gang was...
(MITSUKI)
It seems they were slashed
with a very sharp blade.
The two I found
were charred...
Almost as if they'd
been struck by
a bolt of electricity
or something like that.
You think it was
more than one ninja?
Well, I'm not sure,
but there's a good chance
of that.
But then why'd that guy
keep going on
about a "white monster"?
(MITSUKI)
Maybe it's this, Boruto...
Huh...?
Look at these footprints
right here.
Something came running
at them from further in,
and...
[shocked, confused]
(KONOHAMARU)
That footprint's huge...
Whatever made it
must be huge too.
Is that what
killed all these men...?
Well, if it is,
then it's able to use
multiple jutsu.
So further inside,
there's a monster capable
of doing stuff like this...
From here on,
be prepared for battle.
Don't lose focus,
even for a second.
[shocked]
The footprints...!
Why'd they stop
all of a sudden?!
Is this a trap...
just intended to lure us in?!
[groaning growling]
(KONOHAMARU)
Everyone,
keep a close eye on
your surroundings!
(BORUTO)
Damn it!
Where are they gonna
come at us from?
[heavy breathing,
groaning growling]
[shocked, realizing]
Up there!
[straining efforts]
Big Brother!
Konohamaru Sensei!
[groan]
You okay, Big Bro?!
I'm fine.
However...this thing is...
[shocked, worried]
[growl]
[shocked]
White Zetsu!
(KONOHAMARU)
Why is he here?!
[growl]
(BORUTO) What the hell
is that monster?!
(KONOHAMARU)
He's called White Zetsu.
He's basically a living weapon
created by Kaguya Otsutsuki.
(BORUTO) What are those
flat‐looking black flames?
(KONOHAMARU) Flames that
only one man can control,
that can completely
burn anything...
Amaterasu!
(SARADA)
I knew it!
Dad!
(BORUTO) Next time on Boruto:
Naruto Next Generations:
"Sasuke's Shadow"
Sarada's dad?
But why?
What was he doing in here?!